Cambridge International AS & A Level Information Technology 9626 Pseudocode Guide for Teachers.

2 Variables, constants and data types

2.1 Data Types
The following keywords are used to designate some basic data types:

e INTEGER  awhole number

e REAL a number capable of containing a fractional part
© CHAR a single character

e STRING a sequence of zero or more characters

© BOOLEAN the logical values TRUE and FALSE

© DATE a valid calendar date

2.2 Literals
Literals of the above data types are written as follows:

e Integer Written as normal in the denary system, e.g.5, -3

e Real Always written with at least one digit on either side of the decimal point, zeros being added if
necessary,e.g.4.7, 0.3, -4.0, 0.0

© Char Asingle character delimited by single quotese.g.'x', 'C', '@!

¢ String Delimited by double quotes. A string may contain no characters (i.e. the empty string)
e.g. "This is a string", ""

e Boolean TRUE, FALSE

e Date This will normally be written in the format dd/mm/yyyy. However, it is good practice to state
explicitly that this value is of data type DATE and to explain the format (as the convention for
representing dates varies across the world).

2.3 Identifiers

Identifiers (the names given to variables, constants, procedures and functions) are in mixed case. They can
only contain letters (AZ, a-z), digits (0-9) and the underscore character (__). They must start with a letter
and not a digit. Accented letters should not be used.

It is good practice to use identifier names that describe the variable, procedure or function they refer to. Single
letters may be used where these are conventional (such as i and j when dealing with array indices, or X and
y when dealing with coordinates) as these are made clear by the convention.

Keywords identified elsewhere in this guide should never be used as variable names.

Identifiers should be considered case insensitive, for example, Countdown and Count Down should not be
used as separate variable names.

8 www.cambridgeinternational.org/alevel Back to contents page
